[WIP]Agent 84: prepares the agent deployed cluster for mce (#53967)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/preparing-an-inital-cluster-deployment-for-mce-connected.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing_with_agent_based_installer/preparing-an-agent-based-installed-cluster-for-mce.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-an-inital-cluster-deployment-for-mce-connected_{context}"]

= Preparing an initial cluster deployment for multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator while connected

You can create the required manifests for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator, and Local Storage Operator (LSO). Additionally, ready a fully funtional hub cluster.

.Procedure

> . Create a sub-folder named  `openshift` in the `<assets_directory>` folder. This sub-folder is used to store the extra manifests that will be applied during the installation to further customize the deployed cluster.

Author: Ok I will mention that Installer does not validate extra manifests.  <assets_directory> is defined in the procedural step >>  _Create a `<assets_directory>` folder to place a valid `install-config.yaml` and `agent-config.yaml` file. This directory is used to store all the assets._

----
====

. Create the `agent.iso` image by running the following command:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install agent create image --dir <assets_directory>
----

. Once the image is ready , boot the target machine and wait for the installation to complete.

. To monitor the installation, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install agent wait-for install-complete --dir <assets_directory>
----

+
[NOTE]
====
To configure a fully functional hub cluster,you must create the following manifests and manually apply them by running the command `$ oc apply -f <manifest-name>`.
The order of the manifest creation is important and where required, the waiting condition is displayed.
====

. For the PVs that are required by the AI service, create the following manifests:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: local.storage.openshift.io/v1
  kind: LocalVolume
  metadata:
   name: assisted-service
   namespace: openshift-local-storage
  spec:
   logLevel: Normal
   managementState: Managed
   storageClassDevices:
     - devicePaths:
         - /dev/vda
         - /dev/vdb
       storageClassName: assisted-service
       volumeMode: Filesystem
----
+

> You can use the following command to check the availability of the PVs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to wait for the availability of the PVs, before applying the subsequent manifests:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait localvolume -n openshift-local-storage assisted-service --for condition=Available --timeout 10m
----
NOTE: The `devicePath` is just an example.

. Create a manifest for an MCE instance.
+
.Example MultiClusterEngine.yaml

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: multicluster.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MultiClusterEngine
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterengine
  spec: {}
----

. Create a manifest to enable the AI service.
+
.Example agentserviceconfig.yaml
+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: agent-install.openshift.io/v1beta1
  kind: AgentServiceConfig
  metadata:
    name: agent
    namespace: assisted-installer
  spec:
   databaseStorage:
    storageClassName: assisted-service
    accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
    resources:
     requests:
      storage: 10Gi
   filesystemStorage:
    storageClassName: assisted-service
    accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
    resources:
     requests:
      storage: 10Gi
----

> . Create a manifest to deploy spoke clusters.

Reviewer: The following manifest could be useful to deploy _subsequently_ spoke clusters

Author: This is a procedural step that starts with a verb as per our style guidelines, I have added the word subsequently to the step.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing_with_agent_based_installer/preparing-an-agent-based-installed-cluster-for-mce.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-an-inital-cluster-deployment-for-mce-connected_{context}"]

> = Preparing an initial cluster deployment for multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator while connected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Preparing to install multicluster engine for Kubernetes (MCE) Operator while connected
```
Is there a way you can shorten this heading? Just a suggestion, but it seems a bit long to me.
Also I think there should be a space before the acronym

> = Preparing an agent-based cluster deployment for multicluster engine for Kubernetes (MCE) Operator while connected

Reviewer 3: Should Agent be capitalized here? (there are a few lowercase in this file, I think the other files had uppercase)

> Create the required manifests for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator, Local Storage Operator (LSO), and to deploy an agent-based {product-title} cluster as a hub cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the required manifests for the multicluster engine for Kubernetes (MCE) Operator, Local Storage Operator (LSO), and to deploy an agent-based {product-title} cluster as a hub cluster.
```
added space

.Procedure

> . Create a sub-folder named  `openshift` in the `<assets_directory>` folder. This sub-folder is used to store the extra manifests that will be applied during the installation to further customize the deployed cluster.

Reviewer 3: Folder is fine but usually "subdirectory" is used so suggested updating folder to directory to match
```suggestion
. Create a subdirectory named  `openshift` in the `<assets_directory>` directory. This subdirectory is used to store the extra manifests that will be applied during the installation to further customize the deployed cluster.
```

The `<assets_directory>` folder contains all the assets including the `install-config.yaml` and `agent-config.yaml` files.

+
[NOTE]
====
The installer does not validate extra manifests.
====

> . For MCE, create the following manifests and save in the `<assets_directory>/openshift` folder:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. For MCE, create the following manifests and save them in the `<assets_directory>/openshift` folder:
```

+
.Example `mce_namespace.yaml`

> 

Reviewer 3: In this file too, should remove the extra blank lines (I won't comment them all)
```suggestion
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Namespace
  metadata:
    labels:
      openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"
    name: multicluster-engine
----

+
.Example `mce_operatorgroup.yaml`

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
  kind: OperatorGroup
  metadata:
    name: multicluster-engine-operatorgroup
    namespace: multicluster-engine
  spec:
    targetNamespaces:
    - multicluster-engine
----

+
.Example `mce_subscription.yaml`
+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
  kind: Subscription
  metadata:
    name: multicluster-engine
    namespace: multicluster-engine
  spec:
    channel: "stable-2.1"
    name: multicluster-engine
    source: redhat-operators
    sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> You can install a distributed unit (DU) at scale with the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (RHACM) using the assisted installer (AI). These distributed units must be enabled in the hub cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can install a distributed unit (DU) at scale with the {rh-rhacm-first} using the assisted installer (AI). These distributed units must be enabled in the hub cluster.
```

> The AI service requires persistent volumes (PVs), which is manually created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AI service requires persistent volumes (PVs), which are manually created.
```
Tense

====

> . For AI service, create the following manifests and save in the `<assets_directory>/openshift` folder:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. For the AI service, create the following manifests and save them in the `<assets_directory>/openshift` folder:
```

+
.Example `lso_namespace.yaml`

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Namespace
  metadata:
    annotations:
      openshift.io/cluster-monitoring: "true"
    name: openshift-local-storage
----

+
.Example `lso_operatorgroup.yaml`

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
  kind: OperatorGroup
  metadata:
    name: local-operator-group
    namespace: openshift-local-storage
  spec:
    targetNamespaces:
      - openshift-local-storage
----

+
.Example `lso_subscription.yaml`

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
  kind: Subscription
  metadata:
    name: local-storage-operator
    namespace: openshift-local-storage
  spec:
    installPlanApproval: Automatic
    name: local-storage-operator
    source: redhat-operators
    sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> After creating all the manifests, your filesystem must display as follows:

Reviewer 3: This is a really nice help to the user :)

```suggestion
After creating all the manifests, your filesystem must contain the following files and directory structure:
```

.Example Filesystem

[source,terminal]
----
<assets_directory>
    ├─ install-config.yaml
    ├─ agent-config.yaml
    └─ /openshift
        ├─ mce_namespace.yaml
        ├─ mce_operatorgroup.yaml
        ├─ mce_subscription.yaml
        ├─ lso_namespace.yaml
        ├─ lso_operatorgroup.yaml
        └─ lso_subscription.yaml
----
====

. Create the `agent.iso` image by running the following command:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install agent create image --dir <assets_directory>
----

> . Once the image is ready , boot the target machine and wait for the installation to complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Once the image is ready, boot the target machine and wait for the installation to complete.
```
removed extra space

> . Once the image is ready, boot the target machine and wait for the installation to complete.

Reviewer 3: Per ISG, use "after" or "when" instead of "once"

. To monitor the installation, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install agent wait-for install-complete --dir <assets_directory>
----

+
[NOTE]
====

> To configure a fully functional hub cluster,you must create the following manifests and manually apply them by running the command `$ oc apply -f <manifest-name>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure a fully functional hub cluster, you must create the following manifests and manually apply them by running the command `$ oc apply -f <manifest-name>`.
```

The order of the manifest creation is important and where required, the waiting condition is displayed.
====

. For the PVs that are required by the AI service, create the following manifests:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: local.storage.openshift.io/v1
  kind: LocalVolume
  metadata:
   name: assisted-service
   namespace: openshift-local-storage
  spec:
   logLevel: Normal
   managementState: Managed
   storageClassDevices:
     - devicePaths:
         - /dev/vda
         - /dev/vdb
       storageClassName: assisted-service
       volumeMode: Filesystem
----
+

> Use the following command to wait for the availability of the PVs, before applying the subsequent manifests:

Reviewer 3: Should this be a unique step? (not sure, up to you)

Author: will add it as a step

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait localvolume -n openshift-local-storage assisted-service --for condition=Available --timeout 10m
----

+

> NOTE: The `devicePath` is an example and and may vary depending on the actual hardware configuration used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: The `devicePath` is an example and may vary depending on the actual hardware configuration used.
```

> NOTE: The `devicePath` is an example and may vary depending on the actual hardware configuration used.

Reviewer 3: [Admonitions](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#admonitions) should use this format:
```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
The `devicePath` is an example and may vary depending on the actual hardware configuration used.
====
```

+
. Create a manifest for an MCE instance.
+

> .Example MultiClusterEngine.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `MultiClusterEngine.yaml`
```
added backticks to match the other filename headings

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: multicluster.openshift.io/v1
  kind: MultiClusterEngine
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterengine
  spec: {}
----

. Create a manifest to enable the AI service.
+

> .Example agentserviceconfig.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `agentserviceconfig.yaml`
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: agent-install.openshift.io/v1beta1
  kind: AgentServiceConfig
  metadata:
    name: agent
    namespace: assisted-installer
  spec:
   databaseStorage:
    storageClassName: assisted-service
    accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
    resources:
     requests:
      storage: 10Gi
   filesystemStorage:
    storageClassName: assisted-service
    accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
    resources:
     requests:
      storage: 10Gi
----

. Create a manifest to deploy subsequently spoke clusters.

+

> .Example clusterimageset.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `clusterimageset.yaml`
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: hive.openshift.io/v1
  kind: ClusterImageSet
  metadata:
    name: "4.12"
  spec:
    releaseImage: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.12.0-x86_64
----

. Create a manifest to import the agent installed cluster (that hosts the MCE Operator and the Assisted Service) as the hub cluster.

+

> .Example autoimport.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `autoimport.yaml`
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1
  kind: ManagedCluster
  metadata:
   labels:
     local-cluster: "true"
     cloud: auto-detect
     vendor: auto-detect
   name: local-cluster
  spec:
   hubAcceptsClient: true
----

. Wait for the managed cluster to be created.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc wait -n multicluster-engine managedclusters local-cluster --for condition=ManagedClusterJoined=True --timeout 10m
----

.Verification
* To confirm that the managed cluster installation is successful, run the following command:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```
